import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Filtering Data

The data contained in a listbox can be filtered (searched), programmatically or through end-user interaction, to display a subset of data. Programmatically, data can be filtered through the `Filter` event, which allows more complex filtering such as comparisons between two fields, by providing a filter expression via the `FilterExpression` property, or through a combination of both.  

## End-User Filtering (Searching)
End-users can filter the data in a listbox by typing in the `SearchTextBox`. A search text box (and the `FilterControl` that contains it) is displayed in a tool pane by default, but is disabled. To hide the tool pane and therefore the search text box, set `ToolPaneVisibility` to `Visibility.Collapsed`. To activate the search text box, the `FilteredFieldNames` attached property must be set to a *FieldNameList* instance representing the fields by which the data can be filtered. The following XAML will allow the listbox to filter data by the *Country* field.

:::tip
In order to use the search text box, you must include the Xceed.Wpf.Controls namespace in your application.
:::

:::tip
In order to display the search box (`SearchTextBox`), the `ToolPaneVisibility` property must be set to **Visible**.
:::

```xml
<xclb:ListBox x:Name="listBox"
      ItemsSource="{Binding Path=Customers}"
      ItemTemplate="{StaticResource itemTemplate}">
    <xclb:SearchTextBox.FilteredFieldNames>
        <xclb:FieldNameList>
            <s:String>Country</s:String>
        </xclb:FieldNameList>
    </xclb:SearchTextBox.FilteredFieldNames>
</xclb:ListBox>
```

The `SearchValueDelimiters` property on the `SearchTextBox` class contains the characters that are accepted as delimiters between search values.

The `FilterControl` class acts as a delay-providing intermediary between the `SearchTextBox` and the **ListBox**. As the end-user types in the `SearchTextBox`, the `UIFilterExpression` property is updated continuously (being bound to `SearchTextBox.FilterExpression` through two-way binding in the product's default templates) to contain the filter that should be applied to the data. However, the `FilterControl` waits for the amount of time represented by `ApplyFilterInterval` to pass, without any other changes being made in the `SearchTextBox`, before `DataSourceFilterExpression` (bound to `ListBox.FilterExpression` in the product's default templates) is updated using `UIFilterExpression`. The advantage of this approach is to avoid the filter being applied after each keystroke. By default, the delay value is a TimeSpan representing 700 milliseconds. The FilterControl's `ClearFilterButtonVisibility` property allows the clear filter button to be hidden. The `ClearFilterCommand` is an **ICommand** representing the command associated with the clear filter button.

:::tip
The **SearchTextBox** is part of the **FilterControl** control template, which is in turn part of the the **ListBox** control template.
:::

##  FilterExpression Property
The filter expression, which is accessed through a listbox's **FilterExpression** property, is imbedded into the data query that is used to request data and filters the items before they are returned. The filter expression that is provided can be a simple, single-value expression, or a more complex expression using one or more logical filter expressions. Each filter expression defines a value, the name of the member by whose values the items are to be filtered, and the filter operator to use. If a logical filter expression is used, at least two operand filter expressions must be provided. 

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="xaml" label="XAML" default>
    ```xml
        <xclb:ListBox.FilterExpression>
          <xclb:AndFilterExpression>
              <xclb:FilterExpression MemberName="ShipVia"  
                                    Value="3"
                                    FilterOperator="NotEqual"/>
              <xclb:FilterExpression MemberName="ShipCountry"
                                    Value="Canada"
                                    FilterOperator="Equal"/>
          </xclb:AndFilterExpression>
        </xclb:ListBox.FilterExpression>
    ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="csharp" label="C#">
      ```csharp
        listBox.FilterExpression = new FilterExpression( "ShipCity", FilterOperator.LessThan, "N" );
      ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="vbnet" label="VB.NET">

      ```vbnet
        listBox.FilterExpression = New FilterExpression( "ShipCity", FilterOperator.LessThan, "N" )
      ```
    </TabItem>    
  </Tabs>

  ## Filter Event
The `Filter` event is raised for each item in the data source that has not already been excluded by a filter expression to determine if it passes a **filter**. Unlike filter expressions, the `Filter` event can be used to provide more complex filtering such as comparisons between two fields.

:::caution
The **Filter** event is executed locally, meaning that all items will be retrieved from the server in order to determine those that pass the filter. In a virtualized environment, it is not recommended to use the **Filter** event unless dealing with a very limited number of items.
:::

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="csharp" label="C#" default>
      ```csharp
        private void ListBoxControl_Filter( object sender, ListBoxFilterEventArgs e )
        {
          Order order = e.Item as Order;

          if( order == null )
          {
              e.Accepted = false;
          }
          else
          {
              e.Accepted = ( order.ShippedDate > order.RequiredDate );
          }
        }
      ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="vbnet" label="VB.NET">

      ```vbnet
        Private Sub ListBoxControl_Filter( ByVal sender As Object, ByVal e As ListBoxFilterEventArgs )
          Dim order As Order = CType( e.Item, Order )

          If order Is Nothing Then
              e.Accepted = False
          Else
              e.Accepted = ( order.ShippedDate > order.RequiredDate )
          End If
        End Sub
      ```
    </TabItem>    
  </Tabs>