# Grouping Data

The data contained in a listbox can be grouped into logical sets through the use of **GroupDescription** objects. Multiple group descriptions can be added to the `GroupDescriptions` collection, but items are displayed in "flattened" groups. For example, given the following XAML, "Canada - Moncton" might appear in a group header followed by items with that country and city, followed by another group header containing "Canada - Montreal."

```xml
<xclb:ListBox.GroupDescriptions>
    <PropertyGroupDescription PropertyName="ShipCountry"/>
    <PropertyGroupDescription PropertyName="ShipCity"/>
</xclb:ListBox.GroupDescriptions>
```

## Group Headers
Groups are preceded by group headers, which scroll with the groups. If the listbox uses a StackPanel or a StackView, the group headers can be made sticky through the IsSticky property of `ListBoxContainerConfigurationBase`. It is not possible to make group headers sticky when using `PathPanel` or `PathView`.

Group headers include three buttons that are mapped to commands: 

The up- and down-arrow buttons are used to navigate to the group following and preceding the group, respectively, whose header was interacted with. When a group is navigated to, it is moved to the top of the listbox's viewport.

The third button is used to open a panel that displays the listbox's groups and allows quick navigation to the chosen group. You must set the DataNavigationControl's `DataNavigationConfiguration` attached property in order to activate it.

## The DataNavigationControl
The `DataNavigationConfiguration` attached property of the DataNavigationControl class accepts three types of objects: `AlphabeticalDataNavigationConfiguration`, `RangeDataNavigationConfiguration`, and `CustomKeysDataNavigationConfiguration`.

Setting `DataNavigationConfiguration` to `AlphabeticalDataNavigationConfiguration` causes the `DataNavigationControl` to display keys A through Z. The first `GroupDescription` in GroupDescriptions must be of type string when `DataNavigationConfiguration` is set to an instance of `AlphabeticalDataNavigationConfiguration`. The following XAML configures DataNavigationControl to use keys A through Z:

```xml
<xclb:ListBox x:Name="listBox"
              ItemsSource="{Binding}"
              ItemTemplate="{StaticResource orderListBoxItemTemplate}"
              ToolPaneVisibility="Visible">
...

  <xclb:DataNavigationControl.DataNavigationConfiguration>
    <xclb:AlphabeticalDataNavigationConfiguration />
  </xclb:DataNavigationControl.DataNavigationConfiguration>
</xclb:ListBox>
```

Clicking on a button in the control causes the listbox to browse to the first group whose first-level GroupDescription corresponds to that letter.

The individual items in the `DataNavigationControl` are represented by `DataNavigationItem` instances.

The `RangeDataNavigationConfiguration` class provides `Start` and `End` properties that represent the start and end keys of a range. A `Step` property determines what increment is applied between these values. Clicking on a key's button will cause the listbox to navigate to the first item whose first-level group is equal to the value of that key. The first GroupDescription in `GroupDescriptions` must be a numeric type when `DataNavigationConfiguration` is set to an instance of RangeDataNavigationConfiguration.

The `CustomKeysDataNavigationConfiguration` class allows the use of custom keys in the data navigation control. These keys are set through the `CustomKeys` property of the class.