# Drag-and-Drop Operations

The `ListBox` class and the classes contained in the `Xceed.Wpf.DragDrop` namespace provide support for flexible drag-and-drop operations, through events that determine whether a drop operation can occur (`IDropTargetCanDropElement`) with an `IDropTarget`-derived control, as well as events related to entering (`IDropTargetDragEnter`), leaving (`IDropTargetDragLeave`), dragging over (`IDropTargetDragOver`), and dropping on (IDropTargetDrop) an `IDropTarget`-derived control.

To enable drag operations from the listbox, the AllowDrag property must be set to true.

:::tip
You must implement the **IDropTarget** interface on a control you wish to be able to accept the dragged elements.
:::

The appearance and behavior of items dragged from the listbox can be configured by setting the `DraggedElementConfiguration` property of the `ContainerConfigurations` instance accessible via the listbox's `ContainerConfigurations` property.


```xml
<xclb:ListBox x:Name="productsListBox"
              AllowDrag="True"
              Margin="5"
              Grid.Column="0"
              Grid.Row="1"
              ItemsSource="{Binding Products}"
              ToolPaneVisibility="Collapsed"
              ItemTemplate="{StaticResource productListBoxItemTemplate}"
              SelectionMode="Extended"
              DragStarting="ProductsListBox_DragStarting">

...

    <xclb:ContainerConfigurations>
      <xclb:ContainerConfigurations.DraggedElementConfiguration>
         <xclb:DraggedElementConfiguration PositionAdornerRelativeToElement="False"
                                        DisplaySiblingElements="False"
                                        ElementTemplate="{StaticResource productDraggedElementTemplate}"
                                        CanDropCursor="Custom"
                                        CanDropCursorTemplate="{StaticResource addToCartCursorTemplate}"
                                        NoDropCursor="Custom"
                                        NoDropCursorTemplate="{StaticResource noDropCursorTemplate}" />
      </xclb:ContainerConfigurations.DraggedElementConfiguration>
    </xclb:ContainerConfigurations>
  </xclb:ListBox.ContainerConfigurations>
</xclb:ListBox>
```

Pre-defined cursors for `CanDropCursor` and NoDropCursor are available in the `DragDropCursor` enumeration. `CanDropCursor` is shown when a drop operation can be performed. When this property is set to `DragDropCursor.Custom`, the data template in `CanDropCursorTemplate` is used instead. The NoDropCursor is shown when a drop operation cannot be performed. When this property is set to `DragDropCursor.Custom`, the data template in `NoDropCursorTemplate` is used instead.

The DisplaySiblingElements property determines whether dragged sibling elements will be displayed during the operation, while the **SiblingElementTemplate** provides the data template for those elements.

The PositionAdornerRelativeToElement property determines whether the dragged element is positioned underneath the adorner (the cursor).

Finally, how quickly dragged/dropped elements fade in and out is determined by the `ElementFadeInDuration` and the `ElementFadeOutDuration` properties, respectively.

:::tip
The `ListBoxContainer`-derived classes (`ListBoxItem` and `ListBoxGroupHeader`) implement the `IProvideDraggedContentPresenter` interface. By implementing this interface in your own controls, you can create controls that present content as these listbox elements do during drag operations.
:::